Hello everyone, so glad to have you here right now on YouTube and just a moment on the podcast.
It's great to see you all. Thanks for being here. Everyone out there, yeah, everyone out
there in the live stream, if you're watching and you have comments, feedback or ideas,
please throw them into the live chat and we'll try to make them part of the show. With that,
Rusty, Kim, Jay, and Rivers, welcome all of you
to Talk Python To Me.
- Thanks, great to be here.
- Thanks, thanks.
- Yeah, it's really excellent to have you here
to share this topic.
You know, a lot of times I have people on the show like,
oh, here's how we built Instagram,
or we're using this cool library to scale
like the largest Django deployment,
or here's how I built Flask and how we're evolving it,
and something like that in data science,
And that's great, but I think so many people
out there listening are like,
well, I'm not building those kinds of apps.
I'm building something entirely different,
or I don't, I just build little things.
And I think actually that's where a lot of the magic is
for everyone out there listening.
You know, we all have these things
that are in our day to day, and it's just like,
you know, that is, I'm not looking forward to that,
but so many times, a couple hours of Python
or other coding, a little automation,
and then that becomes automatic.
And life is just, you know,
it's so rewarding to do those little things.
I'm excited to share the ones that I did.
They're incredibly simple,
but they just make me smile so much as I do them.
So really looking forward to doing that.
But before we get into the apps and the details,
you know, let's maybe go around
the YouTube stream picture here
and let you all quickly introduce yourself.
Three of the four of you have been on the show before,
but just, you know, a quick introduction.
Rusty, let's start with you.
- Okay, I gave my long introduction last time,
so I'll just say that I'm a reformed teacher.
About two years ago, or maybe three years ago,
I started coding, and then I had an opportunity
to kind of become the data manager at my school district.
So I'm trying to build pathways
between all the various services that we use
and keep our data clean.
- That is so cool because it's not like you had
to leave the education space or the public school space.
you just sort of transitioned into this world
where you can take what you're really into
and like help everyone with it, right?
- Yeah, it was a great move for me.
I was actually trying to learn how to teach coding
to the kids and then I just really enjoyed it.
So yeah.
- We just did more of that.
- Yeah, just as the same time big data hit.
So it was good.
- Yeah, fantastic.
Kim.
- Welcome back.
If I can borrow a phrase from Rusty,
I'm a reformed embedded software engineer.
So moved from C a couple of years ago
to doing many DevOps work for a financial services
organization here in South Africa where I'm based.
- Yeah, fantastic.
And you were also hosting the Ask Me Anything not long ago.
- Yes.
- Thank you for that.
- That was very good.
- Yeah, it was fun.
Jay, hello, hello.
I just saw you over on Python Bytes not long ago,
but happy to have you here.
- Happy to be back.
I will crib everyone and say I am also reformed,
reformed marketer, veteran, now developer advocate
and spend a lot of my time just talking to the community
and learning from folks that are a lot smarter than I am.
- Yeah, you're doing stuff with Elasticsearch.
Yeah, you're doing stuff with Elasticsearch
and some cool database like things, right?
- Absolutely.
- Yeah.
Rivers, your first time on the show.
Thank you so much for coming.
It's really great to have you here.
Tell people real quickly about yourself.
- My name is Rivers Cuovo.
I'm the singer and songwriter for the band Weezer.
Our first album came out in '94 and we've been touring and making records on and off ever since.
I'm such a fan of your music. It came out when I was in college and I've been a fan of what you're
doing longer than I've been a fan of Python, which is crazy. That's so awesome. So thank you for that.
Yeah, I'm a huge fan of your show, Michael. I listen every morning and of course I've learned
so much and gotten turned on to so many cool packages. But also it's just nice to get that
human connection in the midst of a few hours of coding every morning.
Just to hear you all you guys talking about it, it really warms the heart.
Awesome, thank you. You know, I think a lot of people who have told me they
listen to the show and some of the guests as well, they don't work in like a
startup tech place environment, but being able to listen to a podcast like Talk
by Thinemy and others, it kind of brings that community to them even though
they're not necessarily like everyday showing up with a group of people who
would be that community. Yeah that's exactly my situation and I'm working on
my own here and I don't know anybody who is into coding so it's great to know you.
Yeah awesome yeah you as well. So as you said people will know you from Weezer
and that's amazing but you are doing such cool stuff with automation and
Python and code and so I think people are really going to be blown away by
by what you're doing as well. So I'm super excited to get into that. But you know, let's just sort of
go down. We all put together a couple of things that we're working on in a shared doc here. And
it looks like Rusty, I put you first. So Rusty, you want to kick us off with the first sort of
automation thing that you built? Sure. So when COVID hit, we had to change a lot of different
things and, you know, adjust like everybody else did in the world. And we ended up sending out
a lot of notifications from our school district when when certain when an
infection would happen at the school and we'd have to notify people and it was
this huge thing and we're you know at the height we're getting lots of these
things today and so schools started to put the
information up on their website so you could just go and refer to the website
instead of get a wall of text every time something happened. So my superintendent
came in and said she wanted to put this dashboard up and then she showed me some
other schools that had done it and I looked at what they were doing and
just knowing how the web works and schools work I knew that somebody who's
who's gonna have to update this information
every single day or every other day on the website.
It was something that could easily fall by the wayside.
So I thought to myself, who's gonna be updating this?
And then she's like, don't worry about it, I'll update it.
You've got so much to worry about,
that's not what you want your superintendent doing, right?
Updating the website once a day or whatever.
So I was like, I should be able to handle this
with Python somehow.
So I hit Reddit and I just asked kind of,
well, first off, I had to find out
where she was getting the information.
So the health department put it up on the website,
but it was a PDF and I was like, oh, that's crazy.
Yeah, so I can't scrape that.
- I was so close to a beautiful soup.
It was all over.
- Maybe a little just updated every day.
All right.
So then, yeah, so then I hit Reddit and I was like,
is there a way to turn, you know, a PDF into a,
into a CSV with Python?
And of course there was.
So about two or three different packages got recommended.
I played around with them for about a half an hour
and this one called Tabula, which I wasn't crazy about
because it depends on Java underneath.
So it uses Java to kind of like recognize patterns on there.
And it'll, so it'll, it'll turn your, your PDF,
pull out just the tabular data
and stick it into a CSV for you.
So I was able to just with a bit of requests,
go up, grab that every time, save it, process it,
wrote a really gnarly little loop
that finds my four schools
and then puts those into my own CSV.
And then I use Python again,
Yagmail to just send it to myself.
I did it twice a day 'cause it was updated
at different times.
And then on the other end with a little JavaScript,
I just went into my email and I find that
and I just update a Google sheet
that's embedded on the website.
So there's a bunch of little parts on it,
but literally the Python was about 96 lines of code
with comments and stuff, and it accomplished this.
- Yeah, that's super cool.
And it's really valuable, right?
That if something like that gets missed,
it could make a big deal
It could be some kind of outbreak.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- And I could apply that to just about,
you know, to so many other things as well.
So the time, all the time I invested in learning
how that was, and it was an afternoon
and I was able to figure that out
and impress my immediate boss, which was really cool.
He enjoys those types of things.
So that was good.
- Yeah, I bet.
Paul out there in the live stream, hey Paul,
says, "I use Yagmail to automate sending out emails
"for the SciPy conference."
Very cool.
Rivers, it sounds like you and Rusty
share some of the same tool set there.
like it turns with like web scraping, PDFs, Google Sheets,
that kind of stuff.
- Yeah, I was just remembering, in fact,
I emailed you a few years ago in desperation
because I was trying to get some data from our agents.
They have a web service where they give you,
the artist, tons of details about their upcoming shows,
attendance and tickets sold and gross income,
all this stuff.
So I wanted to get all that.
and I had to deal with, it's rendered as a PDF.
So I made the mistake of going to Stack Overflow first,
I guess, instead of Reddit.
And my question was getting all these down votes.
- Oh yeah. - Oh no, yeah.
That's rough, that is so rough.
- I turned to Michael. - You gotta find
your community.
- Michael helped me out.
- Yeah, that's awesome.
I remember you were really frustrated
'cause somehow the wrong information had been given to you
when you showed up and you're like,
this was supposed to be one hour and it's two hours
and I was at the wrong, yeah, I just, I could see,
I imagine you're like, how do I get this table
or this part of the information out of the PDF?
And yeah, that was perfect.
- Yeah, but what is that package, Yagmail?
I think I ought to try that one.
- Yep, yep, Yagmail.
It's really simple.
The toughest part is going through the hoops with Google,
but once you get your little file back from them,
you can use it for everything, so.
- Yeah, very cool.
All right, thanks, Rusty.
Kim, your first one's up next.
- Just remind myself which one I wrote down
as my first one.
That was it, yeah.
This little one that there's no link to it,
doesn't have a name or anything,
it's just a little small script that,
one of the many that sits on my hard drive.
And this I think is really kind of an epitome
of small time or very small tool Python writing.
It's a small tool I wrote,
basically as the team I work with at work
is about five or six of us,
we kind of as agile as we need to be,
which includes a Trello board,
'cause we're no longer standing in front of a whiteboard
in an office, we're all in our own homes.
And so basically tracking cards
of what we're doing for the week.
And we include in our team people who have
from day to day responsibilities for deployment
to some of our environments.
So one of the guys will push changes to staging,
a different guy will push changes
to our production environment.
And that's all kind of boring setup.
But effectively what it means is at the start of the week,
I need to generate 10 cards for who's doing what.
So I used to get an email from one of our administrators
to say, here's the schedule for the week.
You know, Bob's doing the staging on Monday
and Fred's doing production on Tuesday.
And I want to track those on my trailer board.
And I reached the point where it's really,
it shouldn't be a big deal.
It took me about 10 minutes on Monday morning.
I would make 10 cards and I'd write down Fred Monday,
Bob Tuesday, but it was tedious and it was fiddly
and I was putting it off because it was 10 minutes
I'd rather not spend.
And it's only 10 minutes, but still it was irritating.
And that was kind of--
- Yeah, of course, of course.
- Not the thing I wanted to do on Monday morning.
So basically I have sitting on my hard drive
about 150 lines of Python purely to ask me,
interrogate when I run it, who's doing what.
Well, basically I've now got it set up.
So it says full staging on Monday,
which of these six people is the deployer?
Then for, and just repeat for each of those cards.
And that was literally,
it takes me 20 seconds to run it now.
I have to read the email I get on Monday morning to say,
you know, who's doing when, and then it all does it for me.
And it's incredibly daft.
I mean, I save myself 10 minutes a week.
It's no big deal, but I also save myself some irritation
and scratches that little itch.
That's the kind of thing I really love
about a really small Python tool.
It took me a couple hours to write.
So it's not like it cost the company days of my time.
- Yeah.
Yeah, and it probably saved him some mistake
or some forgotten thing.
- Well, exactly, yeah.
- Yeah.
What's the Trello communication bit?
- That's all REST API on Trello.
So like most similar REST API services,
you go along to Trello's side, you identify yourself,
you get back a token from them,
and then that's all API queries.
So of the 150 lines of Python,
about 40 are just config files for me
mapping the names of my team members
and various bits of information about the Trello
to ID numbers I have to send back to Trello.
- Yeah, very cool.
It's even less actual code.
That's fantastic.
So I don't know how we managed to pull this together when you all arrived for the meeting, but we're exactly sort of in the loop of the same order in the docs.
So awesome, Jay, you're next. That'll keep it easy.
Awesome. Well, as I mentioned before, I work as a developer advocate and I work for Elastic.
Elastic, we do search stuff and search things.
I'm sure any of my coworkers listening are like,
that's it, that's all you're gonna say?
Yes, but one of the things that we have done
because we do a lot of visualization
is we build dashboards for like everything.
There's so many dashboards.
I have actually built a series of my own set of dashboards
using one of my new favorite tools called Elon,
which is like a pandas like data framing tool
tool but for Elasticsearch.
And it's great because it's designed to work with pandas,
but it's also designed to work like pandas.
So if you've ever done any type of data framing,
any type of dealing with big numbers, big,
any type of information like that,
and you're used to those commands,
you can just try them and usually they work.
And what I've learned is Elon is amazing
for like parsing CSV files, parsing JSON files.
You don't have to do like the for or with open, whatever the CSV file is as reader and
like all this, like that whole pattern you just do, you know, in pandas, you would just
do pandas read CSV or in Elon, you would say Elon CSV to Elon, and then it just loads that
information into your database.
No questions asked.
It just goes.
That's super cool.
Yeah.
So instead of trying to work with it directly with pandas, you put, you put it into the
database so you can do queries and reporting and stuff like that driven off of it.
Exactly. Instead of like...
Because you work at a database company.
All of the mutations that you need to find exactly what you need,
you just do a general elastic search query,
and then it shows you the information you're looking for,
but in like a data frame format, which is sweet.
And I've used that for a couple of projects.
I built a tool in React.
Sorry, I know it's a Python podcast,
but it's called diversityorgs.tech.
I do a lot of diversity work in my job,
connecting with organizations that work with underrepresented folks.
And this has been a way for me to collect, like, I think at this point, like
over 500 different organizations that work with underrepresented folks in tech
and put it in like its own little mini search engine, its own like small meetup
and updating it.
I actually just use Flask, which I think is funny because you have that is not it.
I wish that was it.
Diversity orgs.tech.
I was like, their design work much better than mine.
There we go.
Yeah.
Your message is great.
Clean and simple.
I like it.
Yeah.
So you can just search for it.
But yeah, it's cool that you can just
use things like Flask on the back end
and build your own little admin portal.
And you don't have to worry about spinning up a server
or being worried that someone's going
to try to brute force your back end or anything.
You're just like, oh, let me start my Flask engine, run it.
it's sending REST API calls to Elasticsearch
and then it just works, which is great.
- Yeah, yeah, that's really cool.
I think this whole diversity org tech place is really cool.
So the idea is basically you're trying to create groups
that people can reach out to you
because if you see people who like you,
you feel way more like you should be part
of that community, right?
way more part of technology or whatever.
- Yeah, just try it out.
Just type in Portland and hit search and see what comes up.
Like there should be groups.
In Portland, there'll definitely be groups.
- Yeah. Oh yeah.
There's the Pilates, Blackstone Technologies,
Django Girls, Girls in Tech.
- There's more.
There's more.
- Oh yeah.
- Yeah, there you go.
- Oh yeah. Look at that.
- Okay, thank you.
- Yeah, wait a minute.
- This is a FML scan.
- Less than UI.
So this is all running React,
but the way that I update this,
like if someone messaged me and says,
"Hey, I want my organization added to this list."
I just have a Flask site that I just spin up locally
on my machine that sends all that,
like it's just a quick form.
And then it sends all the data to my server
in Elastic Cloud, and then it's up on the website instantly.
- I was just gonna point out one of the powerful things
that you can do that had only occurred to me much later
than I wish it had done, is a very fast way
to get a GUI tool for something you're only ever going
to use for yourself is something like Flask or Django
or something like that.
It doesn't have to be pretty, it doesn't have to look good.
The only place it's ever going to run is on your own machine
but you get all the HTML GUI stuff basically for free.
You're not writing anything.
You're not writing a desktop back for buttons to click.
You're just firing up some HTML.
So that's actually quite a useful thing to do.
You don't have to worry about deployment.
There's no security issues, et cetera.
It never leaves your hard drive.
- Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
You know, another one that's pretty good is Anvil.
- Yeah.
- In terms of, I just kind of want something,
probably I'm misspelling.
We're watching my Google.
I know. Yeah, there we go.
I thought that's what I typed, but that's okay.
So it's interesting because you write Python even on the front end and it runs in your browser,
but it takes care of the hosting and whatnot.
You don't have to share it publicly.
So it's kind of, you know, if you want to have a semi-hosted one,
that's also a pretty good option.
But yeah, Kim, you're right.
that if you're looking for a UI,
sometimes the right thing might be just a private Flask app
for you, or maybe just for like your people
who are gonna work with it behind the scenes.
It doesn't have to be pretty at that point.
- Exactly, yeah, it doesn't have to be pretty.
You're not selling it or anything,
as long as the buttons are in the right places.
Or for that matter, if it's only people you know,
they can ask you, what do I do?
And you can tell them.
That doesn't have to even be particularly attractive
or easy to use if it gets the job done.
- Yeah, absolutely, absolutely.
Very cool, all right, thanks, Jay.
That was a good one.
Ruberts, what's the first one you want to share?
- First one I want to share is an app called Demolisher.
And I made this because when I'm writing songs,
I very often like to Frankenstein unrelated bits together.
That ends up sounding like a coherent song,
but for me, it feels like the song feels fresher
when I have these unrelated bits,
where when I was writing each bit,
it was like, this is the only thing in my mind.
I'm just making this as good as possible.
So I stick a few of those together,
and it turns into a song.
However, when I'm looking for a bit
to attach to the previous bit, I usually
have some idea of what I'm looking for.
Right, it can't just be a random combination of different--
Yeah, even if it's a very contrasting bit,
it's still something somewhat specific.
So I don't want to have to look through all 1,500
of my old unused demos.
So I needed some kind of filter.
There's a Windows app called MP3 tag,
which I highly recommend for tagging music files.
And there's a search bar in there.
And I'm not sure exactly what the language is
for that search, but it's some kind of SQL looking thing.
But those, I would write these filter queries
and they'd get quite complicated and long
and like all these nests with parentheses.
There's the filter bar down at the very bottom.
- Gotcha.
- And I think I was using this app
in a way that most people weren't
because my filters were just gigantic and unmanageable.
So I wrote this app called Demolisher,
which is a Tkinter window with a bunch of switches
that you set all the switches and then you hit filter
and it will copy this long string
into that filter bar there.
And you end up with the demos
that only match the criteria you're looking for.
- Oh, how interesting.
So it basically develops this,
the SQL query type thing for this app.
Is it OK if I put it up on the screen?
Do you mind?
Is this just a screenshot?
Oh, the screenshot?
Oh, yeah, sure.
There we go.
I don't know if you can see, but there's just
a bunch of switches here.
So on the far left--
Tell us about the switches.
I'm not very musical.
So you've got to help me out here.
On the far right, this is pretty easy to understand.
It's just a range of BPM.
So I often, I'm looking for a pretty specific BPM
for a bit to Frankenstein in.
And then below the BPM range,
you see like a more human readable version
of the filter string that this app has produced.
So then each column to the left there
is a different parameter.
So on the far left, I can select which folder
I want to select from or not select from.
And then whether the melody starts--
>>Victor: So you've got things like feel, section,
masterpiece, mode, melody, all that kind of stuff.
>>Richard: Yeah.
Some of these you guys would probably recognize,
but others are just particular to me.
But they're different tags I put on my demo.
Genesis, for example, on the far right,
that's how I started writing the song,
whether I started on a piano or started with a lyric
within PNO or just started with a lyric and so on.
Because I found that those are useful tags.
They kind of set the direction of how
that little composition is going to go.
This reminds me of almost like a Moog synthesizer,
like those giant patch panels you see in studios.
You're just like, I need to find the perfect sound.
Let me just unplug this wire, plug it in over here,
and see what happens.
And then it's like that, but developing
like a query for the right track that you have.
- That's awesome.
- Of your own stuff as well and intensely personal
because you built it exactly to your needs.
So very neat.
- Yeah, and it's quite easy to add or remove parameters.
There's a file in this package called sections
and each section is one of these columns.
So it's basically just a dictionary.
- That is so cool.
- That's better defined, yeah.
Excellent.
- I see you just added an interest.
- I love that there's a feel there.
It's like, I would add fiddly to it.
(laughing)
That's how it always feels.
- So yeah, I just, I think you had the poetry guy
on the podcast, so I just tried to start converting
a bunch of these to real packages,
and then I could put them up on GitHub
so other mp3 tag users could download this
and use it themselves.
- Oh yeah, that'd be really neat.
Maybe they can add some extra features and stuff as well.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, I love this.
I love how you brought all this stuff together
and it's just, it's so exactly what you need
to make your life better.
Like you said, you had thousands of these demos
and these pieces you wanted to bring together
and it's just such a challenging format to combine
and then here's how you just bring it all together, right?
- Yeah, so typically I'll end up with a,
it'll return about 10 demos that are very likely to work
for what I'm looking for.
And then I just pick my favorite one.
- Yeah, fantastic.
Can you share any of the songs that maybe you sort of
inspired, you created through this thing?
- Well, I think probably not anything you guys would know
'cause this is only, I've only been using this
last few years and sadly none of those songs have become massively well-known.
So like if you go back to the old Weezer classics,
I was cutting and pasting but I didn't have 1500 demos
back then. It was just, you know, I had a cassette tape I could look through.
Yeah, yeah, awesome. At the live stream,
Zachary the Hacker, nice username there, said if I use this and it made us
and came up with a search and it didn't return a sound,
I couldn't help but to see that as a challenge to myself
to come up with a sound that matched that query.
- That's a great idea.
- Put in random things and see what comes up
and then fill those searches.
- Yeah, absolutely.
- If I could just,
one of the things I think is very kind of,
very cool about your approach, Rivers,
particularly in a small tool approach,
is you didn't then sit down
and write yourself a replacement MP3 file player
or what have you.
You're quite happy with the tool you had,
that once you have the filter query,
you're quite happy with the existing tool
to find them and play them and so forth.
So you just want yourself a filter maker, basically.
And there can be a strong temptation,
or at least I would be tempted to go too far
and then throw in file playing
and media playback and so forth.
And you don't need any of that.
You've got a tool for that.
You just need something to make you a filter.
Yeah.
- Yeah, a good point.
- Yeah, I was talking to Matthew Rocklin
from Dask and Coiled a little while ago,
And he said that they have this interesting philosophy.
I'll probably misquote it just a little bit,
but something of the principle of minimum
or minimal innovation.
Like what is the least thing we can introduce?
And what other pieces could we combine
that everyone is already using and knowing about?
And yeah, I think this sort of matches that.
- Oh, so I should add that one of the packages I used
then is called pywinauto.
- Okay.
- Yeah, what that did-
- Yeah, use that.
- Yeah, when I start Demolisher,
the first thing it does is it,
PyWin Auto opens up the MP3 tag Windows app.
And then when I'm done with the creating the filter,
PyWin Auto copies and pastes it
into the filter bar on MP3 tag.
- Oh, how cool.
Yeah, so basically the use case is
you import the application from it.
You can tell it to start some EXE on Windows,
and then just tell it to start typing keys into it.
Yeah, that's awesome.
It's a really cool way to combine it.
Yeah.
Yeah, fantastic.
- If I can just maybe make a note,
you've reminded me about PyWin Auto
and I'd forgotten about a career,
an episode from my career of 10 years plus ago.
PyWin Auto is also very useful if anybody's looking for,
well, exactly what it does, Windows automation.
And the kind of thing I'm thinking of is that
more than once in my previous work,
we got tools custom made by the supplier,
a particular vendor,
in that somebody was asked to knock together in a day.
So it was terrible to use.
You had to click 50 buttons to get what you wanted.
It didn't remember any settings.
Every time you fired it up,
you had to click all the boxes again
for exactly what you need for your output.
And it also means,
in factory work, you want it as automated as possible.
You want this all to be running
as part of a bigger stream of work.
And you can't really say,
well, do all these automated tasks,
then send somebody to the computer,
take this piece of paper, click these five or 15 sections,
and then take the resulting file.
And Pywin Auto was fantastic for that kind of thing.
'Cause you actually wrote some Python,
basically remembered what the tool should be set to do,
fires the tool up, makes those settings,
runs it and grabs the resulting file.
- That is, yeah, that's super neat.
Because if you wanna automate something on the web,
you could use something like Selenium.
But if you wanna automate like a custom VB6 app
that somebody wrote 20 years ago,
there's no API for that.
- Well, exactly, yeah.
And when you open these tools up,
there's things like, you need to tick a box 27
and drop down to this.
It's like, they haven't been designed
to be particularly well-written,
but the PyWinAuto doesn't care.
It's happy enough to use dodgy variable names and so forth.
- Yeah, for sure.
Yeah, go ahead, Rivers.
- A lot of folks, their Python start
doing little like computer automation bits like that.
So I think having those tools,
Like one, like you said, starting out,
it's never going to be perfect.
I mean, I think probably the hardest part is
when you show people code you've written
and they go, that's not Pythonic.
Well, for stuff like this, it's probably not going to be
because you're not working in Python.
You're just using Python to work in something else.
And it allows people to make messy code
and just figure it out and hack at it.
And then over time, you just get better hacking at it
until your code does start to look more Pythonic.
- Yeah, on one hand you have Pythonic,
on the other hand is I pressed a button
and it happened automatically.
So I win.
- I think that's one of the toughest parts
about getting people to understand,
how to get into Python is that you don't really know
the little tasks that you can do,
that you can solve with it until you get in
and you can do a few things.
So little things like that open the door for you.
- Yeah, yeah, just like a comment on live stream, Brian.
So never heard of Pywin Auto,
this has just opened a lot of quasi RPA doors for me.
Fantastic.
So I wanted to talk about one as well.
So I'm gonna throw out this one that I have to do.
So over on the course website,
we have literally thousands of videos.
And these are MP4s.
There's a whole bunch of really cool automation
about like geo distributed in them
and all sorts of stuff that I wrote during a break
at my hotel at PyCon one year when I got tired,
I needed just a break from humanity.
But the thing I wanted to highlight is I ended up
with a folder full of folders,
full of hundreds of MP4s.
And I need to come up with some way
to import those into the database.
And I was going through,
figure out how long is this video?
I'd go in my Mac finder,
so it's three minutes and 20 seconds.
So what is that?
That's 200 seconds.
And I would put that into the database
and the file name is this,
and then I would do it again and again.
And after a couple of those and a couple of mistakes
and similar stuff with the podcast,
I would just go crazy.
I'm like, I can't take this.
Maybe I have to hire somebody
'cause I'm making too many mistakes
and it's not useful for me to spend so much time
converting minutes and seconds to seconds
and trying to do this.
So what I ended up doing is writing a little script
that I just go to a directory, type JSONify the videos.
I get a giant JSON document
that I can just import into MongoDB and boom.
And it goes through and it finds,
it does two things that are really fun.
One is it goes through and it uses
a little bit like what Rivers was talking about,
uses FF probe, not the same thing,
but it goes in and figures out information
about the audio stream or the video stream.
And it'll give me back the time and information.
And the way it works is I'm not using some API for this.
I'm actually using sub process.
And then there's an output format for JSON.
And I just capture the standard out
and then read it into a Python dictionary.
And then boom, I have all that information.
It's as if FFmpeg had an API for Python.
So that's really fun.
And then I want to not bother to scroll back and copy it.
So I use Piperclip, P-Y-P-E-R.
- I was wondering how you were going to say that.
- Yeah.
- I've used it a lot and I've never known
quite how to pronounce it.
- And so then I just, I generate this huge thing,
this composition of all these video files.
And then I just use Piperclip to copy it to the clipboard.
And then I just paste it in to the tool
that is editing the JSON and like does all the important
stuff and boom, off it goes.
So real simple, but this thing was like,
it's no big deal to say,
I just wanna sort of get the right file name
relative to each another and get the time and convert it.
But boy, did it save me a lot of frustration.
So I wanna recommend those two things, especially Piperclip.
That's a cool one.
- Yeah, Piperclip is very nifty.
The other thing I would just pick up
from what you said there, Michael,
is the point that you don't have to use Python
to solve all the problems.
If Fprobe exists, it's perfectly good
at getting you the data you want.
Subprocess is a perfectly reasonable way, you know, let the expert tool get you to do the difficult thing.
If it probes already on your system, it knows how to get you the data you want, it can get you the data in a format you can use, just use it to do it.
You don't have to write Python to do everything.
There's lots of very useful tools out there that are literally using Python to glue three other tools together.
And that's fine. That works perfectly.
It works great. I'm sure you see this a lot in your world where there's a lot of sort of
stuff that is more like desktop apps or CLI apps meant to automate things, but maybe there's not a
programming API for Python to it. It's often that kind of thing, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, fantastic. All right, I think we've looped around our group here. So,
Rusty, you want to pick it up on the next thing you want to share?
You almost gave me a good intro there. So yeah, so the next thing I needed to do at work was that I was going to automate was
We have to do state reporting and it's this big year-long thing and it's basically what's caused my position to pop up all over the state
So it's to keep giving the state information about our students and what's going on all the time
And it was a horrible process that they decided to automate
It used to be people filling out papers and sending it in and then all of a sudden it just became this
computer thing and then computer people had to do it, but it really wasn't
you know their their
area of expertise before so
We have to send our files in CSV files in and then they get checked and we get errors back
Then we have to fix that and do whatever
So we're given an automated way to do it
So if we can get the files there overnight, we get the time slot and then we get everything back
But eventually these errors creep in it's a flawed system and they know it's flawed
but since it's a government agency, there's like nothing that could be done about it for
multiple years or whatever, so we're looking something different to kind of combat that.
Basically, I would get back errors every day and then I would have to go and hunt them down,
but they wouldn't actually be errors, they'd be false errors. So yeah, so what you have to do is
upload three sets of blanks and then boom, then you can start over and that now your files are
clean and it can it can work. So what I just did was, I was like, well, we only have the one
and I'm an automated spot, so I whipped up a little program in Selenium that goes in and
submits my blanks every night at 9 o'clock at night.
So I'm always working off of the clean files. And it's something I would never think of to do,
but I could do. It's a bit like Kim's project. I could have done that, take five minutes at the end of every night
and submitted my blanks and then let everything else happen afterwards.
it just seemed really easy for me to go ahead.
And it was a great puzzle to find out
how to navigate around inside Selenium,
inside this older looking website.
But it was a great solution for me,
and I don't really get the errors anymore.
And because we can address things that day,
it's really improved my job tremendously.
So I'd say it takes, I would say it saves me hours a week,
just being able to have this little tool automated.
- That's fantastic, to just like reset the errors.
So I would say Selenium is the Pi Win Auto,
but for the web, right?
The equivalent of that is such an amazing tool
for that kind of automation.
Because we've got things like Beautiful Soup,
and we've got requests and Scrapy and stuff,
but they don't so easily just go,
let me go over here, log in,
enter my username and password here,
click the button called log in,
then go to this page and then do that thing.
It's amazing, right?
I think that's definitely one of the secrets.
- Yeah, that's really good.
- I mean, that was one of the reasons why,
you know, with my previous one, the dashboards,
I had to create that web app,
that simple web app to like upload stuff
because at first, my first thought was like,
well, I'll just go to the website
and scrape it with like beautiful soup.
But then when you start getting like JavaScript frameworks
and things like that, they come into play,
you're just, you can't get that data.
Like it doesn't render all of it.
- You're scraping like little curly braces
that are just where the data would go, yeah.
- I had one where, I cycle it my spare time.
So they came out with these Velo Sambas from Adidas,
which were like cycling shoes,
but they look like soccer shoes,
which I was like instantly in love with.
They sold out within seconds
every time they put a new batch up.
So I actually use Selenium
and I kind of automated a check every three hours
to kind of go in and scrape it
and send me an email if my size was in.
And I eventually got them.
But yeah, so,
but it was a really cool little fun project
that I just kind of used everything I learned in this
to go ahead and take that out.
- You should do that for a PlayStation.
- Yeah.
(laughs)
- You wouldn't even say it.
- They sold everything on a JavaScript,
so it's really hard to get,
so you couldn't do it with Beautiful Soup.
I had to go in and grab it this way.
- Yeah, yeah, very cool.
Rivers, did you use Selenium when you were getting
that schedule for your, when you were touring?
- So I definitely use Selenium a lot.
I think I use it in the app I'm going to mention next,
I'm going to mention next, I think.
So maybe I'll talk about that then.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Yeah, but I did--
yeah, when I was trying to scrape from our agent's web
service, I was trying to use Selenium.
Yeah, very cool.
I kind of wanted to just mention one other thing, Michael.
I had the mic here.
Just the way that I've been automating things.
I used a lot of Raspberry Pis in the early days
to use cron jobs to kind of fire these off,
because I know that's something that I had trouble figuring out when I wanted to start
automating things was how to make it happen when you wanted.
I had a guy that was a heavy Linux guy was able to help me figure out how to do that
with cron jobs and things.
Then I moved on to an app on my Mac called Launch Control that helps create daemons and
things like that, which I found really helpful.
Those are some great tools to help make these things happen on the time that you want it.
That's really neat.
My Mac, I install stuff with Homebrew,
and a lot of times you can install it as a service as well,
and it behind the scenes will basically run
the launch control stuff when you install something
like MongoDB or something on your Mac,
which gives you slightly simpler commands to do it,
but it's gotta be like lined up just like that.
That's cool.
- Yeah, that is actually quite handy.
The other thing that is maybe worth looking at
if you wanted to do that kind of automation
for stuff that's not just on your own machine,
the GitHub Actions, which I'm not particularly familiar with.
- Oh yeah.
- GitLab itself has got some very powerful,
effectively free to use until you get quite heavily involved.
CI, and I've forgotten what CI stands for right now.
Continuous integration, that's the word,
but really it's just automation.
At a particular time, do this thing.
That can be quite powerful.
- I really want to try and figure this out
because what I want to do is I put everything on GitHub
and then I just, you know, get a pull it
on the remote computer that's actually,
that's on all the time.
But I want to be able to figure out how to make it update
when I push, just make it auto updates.
- That should be fairly doable.
- That's what everybody says.
- Again, my GitHub Action experience is not great,
but certainly if you can do it on GitLab,
I'm sure you can do it on the other.
The CI teams are all geared around this kind of thing.
- Yeah.
- I've heard whispers of code.
- Something's changed in the code, do something.
- Let's chat Rusty, because my topic is actually designed
for GitHub Actions.
- Wow, fantastic.
(laughing)
- Yeah.
- I'm glad I shaved today.
- Yeah, I'm assuming.
If I can put my DevOps hat on that,
that CI kind of stuff is braided better for us.
It makes a heck of a difference
'cause it means when the developers make changes
to the code, they don't have to know how to go about
and deploy things or build things and so forth.
It just happens for, it basically happens for them.
- Yeah, that's fantastic.
I also set up an automation.
So if I get pushed to a certain branch,
I'll just automatically do a zero downtime redeploy
of like the top Python training infrastructure
and stuff like that, which it's so fantastic.
Rivers, you mentioned source control before.
You guys are using GitHub for your kind of stuff.
Is there source control plus music going on here?
- That's one of my many weaknesses
because I'm usually just working on my own.
I haven't had much use for that sort of collaboration tool.
I do have my own website, so it does go through GitHub.
But I've recently started volunteering
I'm like a volunteer coder with this other group of people
and I'm gonna have to learn a lot more of this Git,
all these Git tools, push, pull, all that.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, fantastic.
- Once you have a need for it,
I think it's easier to learn, you know,
until then it's all just something you hear about,
but then it's like, oh, now I need this.
Now I can dig in and figure it out.
- Yeah, if I could basically make one suggestion,
if you are currently making changes to your software
by making final final dot version dot two
kind of files on your hard drive,
look into version control.
It doesn't have to be Git,
but Git is effectively one in this argument.
It really is by far the most well used one.
Even if you never collaborate with it,
just the ability to use a version control system
to basically see what your code looked like yesterday,
or when you made the last,
the change you made three changes ago,
compare them to each other,
those kinds of things.
Until you have that capacity,
you don't really kind of think about
how useful it would be.
Once you're able to do it,
you cannot really imagine not being able to do it.
- So you're saying,
even if I'm not collaborating with anyone,
it's still very useful to--
- Exceedingly so, yes.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
I think I've probably collaborated
in my personal projects once with someone,
but I wouldn't dream of not using something like Git
for anything I've ever written,
just because I know I'm not going to remember.
I'll have this vague memory
that a week ago I made some change
that actually would be useful to have back now.
And Git's got that kind of history.
It'll show me that a week ago I made a push that said,
tweaks the problem to get to knowable or something like that.
And I'll go and look at that
and do a comparison against what I've got now.
- Sounds great.
I've been using the poor man's version control,
which is my Dropbox history.
I just revert to like the state of the folder
three months ago.
- Yeah, that is super hatey, but like just the ability
to see, like I wanna see how it was two weeks ago
when it worked like I expected and now it doesn't anymore.
Tell me, why did I break it?
What did I do?
- Right.
- And then--
- You don't make it public, right?
Nobody can see it.
- No, no, you don't have to.
- No, no, definitely not, yeah.
Yeah, I feel like we all have been there with Zack the Hacker
like once you've accidentally lost eight hours worth of work
because of misunderstanding a git, you probably,
that's when you--
(laughing)
I've even talked on the data I've lost from bad Git commands.
- Yeah.
- Or because you didn't commit something
and you really, really wish you did.
So yeah, if we had more time and some beers,
I would definitely be able to tell some good stories
to that, but I think it's Kim,
you're up next on the sharing, right?
- I just wanted to just finish off that Git discussion.
Just another, just to comment on what you were saying there
Rivers, in terms of making it public,
Git itself never needs to necessarily needs
to leave your hard drive.
You could run Git entirely locally if you wanted to,
and it's still useful as a version control system.
GitHub is just a publicly accessible Git tool,
and it's not the only one, GitLab exists as well.
But even there, you don't have to share anything.
You can do it all privately
and as long as you're the only person ever seeing it.
But it's still useful.
- Right. - Yeah.
- Interesting. - Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, I'd never do it that way, but you're right.
You could just do Git and just save it there, right?
- I don't either, but it is something you could do
if you wanted to, yeah. - Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, and if you're in Dropbox,
you'll be backed up even, yeah.
- Exactly.
Lots of us are using GitLab and GitHub
as offsite backups of our files,
not necessarily to collaborate with anyone on them.
- Oh yeah, that's absolutely true.
- In my case, we're back to PDFs actually,
and manipulating the data in them,
although not CSVs this time.
The second little tool I wanted to talk about was,
again, doesn't have a name.
And in fact, this ties into a previous example.
This is in my GitLab,
but it's one of my private GitLab repos
because it involves some kind of data
that the world doesn't need to see.
That has basically my wife and several other colleagues
regularly receive large PDF documents.
She's in the financial services industry.
That's got 60 to 70 people's account details in them.
So it's three pages per person.
So you could get a 200 page document
and they then basically need to split those up
and send them to each of the individual recipients.
And similarly to what you were saying earlier,
Rusty, you get your CSV data in a PDF,
be much more convenient if you could get that CSV directly.
In this case, it would be much more convenient
if you could get 70 people separate files,
but that's just not how they come.
That's just, there is no,
you can't go to the provider generally and say,
do something else.
You know, what you get is what you get.
And from various cries of anguish from my wife
of hours of doing this and it's error prone
and you're opening up a PDF GUI tool,
selecting the first three pages and saying,
save these three as this person's name,
then the next three and save these three
as this person's name, that kind of thing.
It was actually surprisingly easy to use in Python
to write them a tool to make life a lot easier
on their side, which effectively opened the PDF.
And I had a comment on the name of it.
What did I use?
PyMuPDF, which I had never heard of before.
I see you.
- I've never heard of that either, yeah.
I don't know, in fact, I haven't looked at it
since I wrote this thing, I'd forgotten what it was called.
It used to be called FITZ,
there's something called FITZ, F-I-T-Z,
which this has become, which is what was confusing me
'cause FITZ is what's in my poetry history
in my Pi project at Tomofal.
And this is actually, it's a remarkable project,
basically you split up everything in your PDF,
you can basically access all the text fields.
And once I'd done that,
it was a lot of kind of trial and error,
I split up each page and printed out all the fields
until it looked like the one I wanted.
And when I had that, now it's just a simple loop
that goes through each page.
And if the page happens to have the details
of an account holder on it, then that's a new document.
Take the ones I've seen before then
and save those three pages or four pages
as the person's name that I found in the PDF and repeat.
And within seconds, it's spitting out 70 PDF files
with automated names.
So maybe not the most best way to do it,
particularly if you've got, as is common in South Africa,
two or three words in your surname,
it's trying to be smart about it,
but ultimately it's easy enough to identify
who the file belongs to.
And that was saving hours and hours of time.
- Yeah, that's really rough airprone work
that you go to this big PDF and break it up.
PDF's a bad format.
- Yeah, it's not great.
Yeah.
Once you use a tool like PyMudi,
if you break the PDF up, I mean, it's all,
it's a little bits of text, there's a full stop here
and there's two commas in separate text fields.
They look perfectly fine when rendered,
but when broken up, they're terrible data format.
But the beauty is if for work like this,
if a tool made it in the first place,
it's likely to be consistent enough
that you can break it up
and expect to find the same data in the same places
'cause it wasn't written by a human in the first place.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's super neat.
Another thing you mentioned in the notes is GUI.
- GUI, yes, GUI is a beautiful thing.
- I think GUI is really interesting.
- I vaguely mentioned, I vaguely recall every now and then
on Python Bytes, you brought them up briefly.
You don't discuss GUIs much, but every now and then
you've vaguely discussed them.
- Yeah, it's been a while.
- Yes, actually.
- It has.
- GUI is a--
- They come in waves.
- Yeah.
- G-O-O-E-Y.
- E-Y, yeah.
- It creates a GUI GUI for application.
- What I really like about GUI is that
When I develop things, I'm very much a Linux-based developer these days, so I don't really want
to be developing a GUI app at all if I can avoid it.
A command line is perfectly fine for what I want.
So I wrote this tool as a command line tool and then just basically attached GUI to it.
And then I think two or three lines of code, I think it's really just an @GUI decorator
on one of my functions.
It produces, if you guys are watching the people on the live stream, you can have this
look at GUI just makes really basic looking GUIs in form layout that pretty much taking every
option you could have in the command line. Yeah if you wanted to create an app that would come up and show
like a UI that would have uh little text fields or even drop downs or stuff that are with command
line arguments like this is it and then you package it up with pi2 installer is that right?
That's what I did yeah or pi installer I think. Pi install yeah yeah sorry yeah.
you're thinking Pi to exe perhaps which is I'm thinking Pi to app which is what I'm thinking
by that. Pi installer is beautiful so with a bit of you I wrote the code I got it working in the
command line I was happy with it attached GUI to it and suddenly I have a GUI which not isn't a
Windows only thing it works just fine on a Linux box too and then Pi installer to make an exe and
I can hand a tool over to somebody else they don't need no Python they need no installation expertise
I'm certainly not going to be able to explain to people who aren't in the technical industry
how to open a command prompt on your Windows machine, find where you put this file,
and then give it command line arguments. That's not reasonable. Oh yeah, and also set up a virtual
environment, make sure you have the right version. Exactly. It's all the requirements, like this is
not going to fly. No, they're like why did you not build me an app? What is this? Even at the
exe distribution level, I mean you can make an exe that's command line only, but no one's going
to want to use that. Unless like me, you prefer not to ever use the mouse, but most people aren't
like me, they want a tool that they understand on the screen. So GUI is beautiful for that.
Yeah, absolutely. That's awesome. Thanks for sharing that. All right, a couple of live stream
comments I'll throw out here. I once worked for almost like three weeks on a project in a
company that had commissioned me, then the server crashed, my backup got fried, and I lost everything.
Yeah, so a good reason to put something out. Yeah, I've been there. Good reason to put
stuff up on maybe like GitHub private repos or something like that. And then also
Reginald, Davis came here to show love to my guy Jay.
Hey, Reginald, thanks for being here with all of us.
All right, let's see.
So now you're up next, Jay.
- Awesome, so like most of us have
and at some point in our lives, I built my own website.
I would say, I don't think the show
isn't gonna be sponsored by like Squarespace
or anything, is it Mike?
'Cause I'm gonna give you the perfect reason
- If Chase is listening, I'm perfectly acceptable
to let them sponsor it, but no, I'm not.
- So I built my site, I made a static site generator,
and one of the things that my brain is kind of buzzing
right now because I actually just launched a new podcast
on Relay FM called Conduit, and like the first episode
went live the same time this live stream did.
So there's like a bunch of stuff happening in my head,
but I say all of that to, yeah, that,
I say all of that to mention that
when you run your own site and you're doing stuff
on like other people's podcasts
and other people's sites and things like that,
and you're doing it consistently,
you always forget to put it on your website.
So I built a small tool for my little static site generator
that uses feed parser to just check the RSS feed
the RSS feeds for the shows that I do regularly and
Then check for certain information if I'm a guest
Like if I'm just a regular guest, it'll just check to see if I'm a guest if it's there
Then it'll it'll create the blog post for me using the summary for the show
So now, you know, I I do a show every Tuesday. I do you know conduits gonna be bi-weekly
I'm I guessed on another show once a month and every once in a while Mike calls me to
to get me on here to, I guess, share Python tricks and stuff.
But I can have all of that running and just have a cron
job through GitHub Actions that checks all of these RSS feeds
every six hours or so.
And it's perfectly free, perfectly
within the realm of it.
And it's just one of those things that's like,
I love the idea of taking RSS, which
is an amazing but often forgotten format,
and just say, let me parse this data
because it has a very defined schema on it.
And I mean, I love data and I love data that's well-defined.
So that's kind of my tool and Feed Parser
is kind of the thing that really makes that happen
in conjunction with GitHub Actions.
- Yeah, Feed Parser is super neat.
If you're working with some kind of RSS feed,
you could approach it from a like ground up thing.
I'm gonna use requests and I'm gonna use elementary
I can do my XPath queries and you're like,
whoa, but it has just this format, right?
So you could use feeds parser
and it just turns this into like a dictionary of dictionaries
which is so much nicer.
Yeah, so you don't have to worry about the RSS format.
Yeah, it's a quick and easy one.
So it's a nice example of taking a higher level
Python library, you know, maybe a good place to look
would be awesome Python or something like that to go
instead of just saying, I'm gonna start from scratch.
You're like, okay, well, I'm gonna go over here
find the audio section and then over here I want to do like Lib Rosa for the
audio and music analysis and so we're gonna go with that and then like see if
that's gonna solve my problem right so I'm trying to start with something
higher level you know it's something I forgot now this reminds me that I was
gonna ask you about rivers have you done anything with Fox dot no so with Fox
basically you can write little tiny Python things and build up like almost
like a growing symphony of a type of it's super super interesting that it's
like this sort of interactive and not quite IDE like a rebel for music it's
something pretty interesting yeah for making for like live performance so you
you write these little tiny Python elements
to like change the tempo or bring in like a background drum
or like now I want this sort of bass guitar
to come in and add to it.
And the performances of it are really, really interesting.
- I'll check it out.
- I think GitHub universe used this
for like their intro this year.
Like they had a live DJ that was like writing code
to make the actual music live.
So now DJ sets are being controlled by a Python.
I love that.
- It's fantastic.
Yeah, I love it.
- Just remembering at the end of the 2020 Python ZA conference
which I was attending was clearly online.
There was a radio, there was a DJ set
by two Brazilian chaps whose name I've forgotten.
I can look up who were also doing basically
programmatically controlled or at least generated music.
Similar to this, it's actually quite an interesting idea.
Yeah, this is something that kind of builds up
over like 10, 15 minutes, but it's really neat
if you just want to like have something in the background.
But the fact that the way they do it is really impressive.
Yeah, cool.
Rivers got a quick shout out in the live stream there.
I love Rivers, you're pretty epic.
The Sarah Diam says, "Awesome."
Definitely, we all agree.
Speaking of Rivers, I think you're next.
And oh, before we move on,
just Jay, congrats on the new podcast.
That's cool.
I'm already subscribed.
All right, where was your next?
- Michael, hearing you mention Labrosa and FFprobe
reminded me that to maintain the tags
of all those 1500 demos,
I use a fantastic Python package called ID3,
which makes use of FFprobe and Labrosa.
So, every night my program will run
and using ID3 it opens up the tags of all those files
and does a ton of maintenance.
I'll access spreadsheets of my managers
and see what comments they've left on these demos,
ratings.
- That's awesome.
And you have automation back over to Google Sheets
as well, right?
- I mean, that's how I got into coding in the first place
was from spreadsheets, but especially Google Sheets,
just getting tired of trying to work those formulas
and those little cells.
So then I went on, was it Fiverr?
And had some people code me some scripts
to help with the spreadsheets.
And then I just started looking at the code
and I was like, well, this is pretty interesting.
And from there, I just got into it on my own.
- Yeah, absolutely.
We lost Kim, but I'm sure he'll be back in a moment.
- Yeah, so what's the last one you want to share?
Is that it or you got another one?
- No, so I love to listen to a lot of music,
but also I feel like it's part of my job
is to just be aware of new ideas
and just constantly listen to music.
I feel like I don't need to hear a song
more than once or twice and then I kind of get it.
And then I just want to hear more new music.
And by new, I mean new to me.
So there's tons of old records, classic records
I still haven't heard yet.
So it's very tedious to go through the Spotify app every day
and try to find stuff for myself.
So I have an app called New Music
that assembles a playlist for me.
First of all, using Beautiful Soup,
it goes to all the online charts
so I can get like the,
whatever the hot songs and the different formats are,
gets a few of those.
and using a package called Spotify.
- Spotify, okay.
- It accesses the Spotify API
and I can access any playlists from there.
So I go on to all the editorial playlists,
like today's top hits or rap caviar, whatever it is.
But then I can also access any user playlist,
playlist my manager shared with me
or playlist I've created.
And I grabbed a random sample from each of those.
And then some of the parameters are hard-coded
in that script, but then I also came up with the idea
of creating a front end with the Google Sheet.
So in the Google Sheet, I can see one column
is all the different playlists I'm drawing from.
And then another column is how many songs
I wanna pull from there each day.
another column would be like, how long do I
have to wait before a song is allowed to come in again?
So every day--
>>Victor: That's super cool.
I love how you've automated this to go basically scrape
through that, because these streaming services,
they're great.
But when you say, play my channel,
they really get in a groove of, here's the 100 songs
we've decided you don't skip.
>>Kyle: Yeah.
So I can also control what songs, what artists,
and what genres are banned.
And with Python, I can create a more complex algorithm.
So I only want to hear hip hop from before 1996,
except for Kanye and Cardi B. I'll let those ones through.
>>Yeah, yeah, very cool.
>>Whatever you want.
So I only go to that same playlist every day.
Makes my life a little simpler.
- Wow, that is so neat.
And I did not plan this.
I don't know, this is just sort of
some awesome inception thing.
So I pull up the PyPI listing for Spotify
and their documentation shows how to get the playlist
from U-Rivers, from Weezer, which is just,
man, that is so awesome.
- This feels like a setup.
This does feel like a setup.
- That's, I have not seen that before.
I think that's a recent change.
- Yeah, yeah, Brian on the live stream also.
I noticed that that's awesome.
And then Zachary the Hacker says,
"Rivers, please tell me this app is available.
This sounds amazing, I need it."
- Yeah, it was one of the very first apps
I tried to publish online.
And so it was super janky.
And I don't think it works at all anymore,
but yeah, maybe, I found that people didn't use it
in the way I expected them to.
Most people, they would say,
they would just put in the name of an artist
or the name of an album.
And really it's more useful for sampling from playlists
'cause then you have a much greater variety.
People would just go and put in their favorite three bands
and the results weren't all that impressive.
- Yeah, yeah, guess what?
You know with music from your three favorite bands.
- There was a talk last year at Pi Gotham
by Angeline Pertasio called the Album Discoverer,
which was like an album recommendation system
that uses something similar to this.
but it was like going into a deep dive of Spotify's API.
And I mean, I will give Spotify all their props
'cause there's just so much information
and stuff that is like similar
to like your previous example, Rivers,
where you had these variables that most people
who don't think about music wouldn't think about originally.
Like, they're like, is it somber?
Does it have good gut feel?
like stuff like that.
And you're just like, I don't know how you quantify that.
But at the same time, like it was the talk was really
interesting because it showed like a comparison of tracks
that were in different genres, but had similar feelings.
And it was a really cool example.
And I've been trying to find it online while you,
when you mentioned it, but I can't find it.
So I'll have to reach out to the PyGotham team
and see if I can get, you know,
find out where that link is.
- Yeah. I know just what you're talking about.
and Spotify gives you access to all that data.
That being said, I'm skeptical of a lot of it
because I've seen the data on my own songs.
(laughing)
We covered "Take On Me" by A-ha,
and which is a very danceable song,
especially compared to-
- That was a really good one.
- Yeah, especially compared to normal Weezer song,
you'd think that would be rated very high
on the parameter of danceability,
but they rate it as one of our least danceable songs.
- Hold on.
Oh, interesting.
Oh, very cool.
I love this look at how you're interacting with music
because it's really different
than I think a lot of people out there
just looking for something in the background.
Cool.
- I must admit, I think you're onto something here.
You were saying there, Michael,
if you just let Spotify do its own thing,
it'll say to you, here's the things you've listened to
again and again and again.
including the things you've always skipped,
which we are convinced you'll listen to if you play enough.
But I should be doing this.
I should craft it more deeply
to kind of get exactly what I want to listen to,
or at least things that sound like stuff
I like to listen to.
This is brilliant.
- Yeah, absolutely.
And as you sat there in the live stream,
welcome, welcome.
Says awesome app reverse,
please share so I can get an automated
Chimba Wamba playlist.
(both laughing)
Fantastic, yeah, I agree.
That's a really, really cool one.
All right, I want to share one.
I'll be really quick since we're at the end.
This is my second one as well.
This brings together a lot of pieces.
It is ridiculously simple.
Like you're almost like, why would you ever do this?
So I built this app and it has a screenshot
because it's an app that runs in the Mac toolbar
in the notification area by the clock.
And this is primarily why I even wanted to bother
bringing this up because if you've got these little scripts
like Kim talked about GUI, which is a cool thing
you package up as an EXE you can share,
but sometimes you just want like a little notification thing
or something that might listen to a hotkey
that it can just like live up there.
And so one of the things that I have to do all the time
is I'll take the title of a podcast,
I will take the title of a course video,
again, thousands of them,
and I want to turn that into a file name that will work well.
So I have this little app called URLify,
which is probably poorly named,
but it does like simple little text transform.
So it uses Piperclip again,
and I can just click a thing
and it'll turn it into something that would look
like a slug for URL.
So like if it was the playlist with spaces and a capital T,
it'll be all lowercase with dashes,
and it'll strip out symbols that wouldn't work, right?
So that actually turned out to be incredibly helpful
'cause I can always reliably name stuff the same.
And anytime I put something in,
I just copy like the title of a presentation,
and then I hit that button,
and it turns it into just the right file name.
And then that app I talked about before,
it'll actually read that and then reverse engineer it
back into like a title, like with case,
the right case scene and stuff again.
So it actually, it sort of comes all around about.
But the thing to build this is there's this app called Rumps
and I'm just be careful when you search for this,
I'll link to it, Rumps.
And it's an acronym for ridiculously uncomplicated
macOS Python status bar apps.
Woo, so glad it has a shorter name, but just like GUI,
like there is a full on application on the screen here
that you can find on the PyPI listing,
which I don't know, what is that, 12, 15 lines of code?
And you've got a notification app
that pops up little macOS Toast runs as a .app
in your Mac bar there,
which I built the .app with, Py2 app.
So yeah, that's two really cool things to put together
to just like, I want something
that's always up in my Mac bar.
There's probably something like this
for the taskbar in Windows, but I haven't found it.
So I'd love to give it a shout out,
but I just don't know.
- This sounds like a great little free course.
- Yeah, it does.
(laughing)
Maybe I should just take a week and build it.
I've actually been thinking about building
like little notification app,
like a simple, simple GUI,
like GUI, GUI, G-O-O-U-I, and like this,
and maybe that taskbar one.
- You can fork a archive project that I have then,
'cause I actually used rumps to make like a,
like we've all seen those little timer apps
where you can put a bunch of dates in
it'll tell you how soon until that thing was happening.
I made an app called Wins App that I just put on GitHub,
and it was just like, "I'm not going to develop this anymore."
I'll send you the link for it, Michael.
But the thing I like about this is there are
so many tools that just do the thing and do it really simple,
really quick, and when you think of stuff like, what is it?
PipX, where you can call a command
directly from your command line,
and it just runs and does the thing,
like that's always nice.
And then doing things like rumps,
where it's like, okay, I wanna do this thing normally,
but I wanna put it up in my menu bar
so that I can just take a quick look and see it.
Yeah, I think it's super awesome to,
we've talked about these big programs
or these things that change our lives,
but sometimes it's even just like the little things
that you can look to see when,
how soon before your anniversary is coming up
so you don't forget it.
or like, hey, when is that big meeting
that I'm supposed to be preparing for?
When is that big conference presentation
or when a CFP deadline is due?
And you can just make a little applet
that you just run every now and then
and get results like that.
- Yeah, you're making me think that the next one
that I wanna build is one for when I go live stream
on a recording, I wanna send out a tweet,
I wanna update the website, so as a little banner,
we're live streaming right now, all those kinds of things.
That just seems like another one up there.
I just click, we're live right now and boom, off it goes.
- I'd like a little button that opens up
my Jupyter notebooks, you know,
like I always have to clear my desktop all over.
So I would take the time to make something like that.
It would be cool.
- Yeah, that'd be super neat.
All right, guys, it looks like we're a little bit over time,
but so many interesting things.
Thank you all for being here.
Now, since there's so many of us, I'm not gonna,
and I think we've all just,
this has basically been the entire show,
like these little libraries.
So normally I ask, you know,
what's your favorite PyPI package you wanna recommend?
But like, we've got 30 of them.
So that was a show, it was awesome.
But just really quick, I'll go around
for the final question, favorite editor, Rusty.
- Start VS Code again.
- Right on, Kim.
- Emacs still.
- Emacs, right on.
Yeah, you'd like to type on an operating system
that is itself artificial intelligence, got it.
- Pretty much, yeah.
- Yeah, Rivers.
- VS Code.
- Okay, right on.
It's a good one, Jay.
- The war begins, Kim, them.
- Well, them you said at least.
- I'm basically using the N version.
- Neo version.
- Awesome.
- Yeah, I can tolerate them.
Basically, yeah, I can tolerate it,
but if I have to very, very slowly get things done,
because basically the problem,
and I'm sure you've,
that probably happens less to Vim guys.
If you're an Emacs guy,
then you remember the key bindings for Emacs,
and VI is what's on the really primitive servers.
And you cannot remember how to make it do things
'cause you keep pushing the wrong buttons
because your fingers remember Emacs commands.
The same would probably happen to you,
but you probably don't necessarily have to use Emacs
very often because VI is everywhere.
- If I have to use a text editor,
there will be like H, J, K, Ls just all over the place
because I think I'm in normal mode.
I'm just like, oh no, it's just typing.
- Yeah.
I'm reminded of the joke.
Like how do you generate a random string?
You give a first year computer science student Vim
and you tell them to exit it.
(all laughing)
All right, you guys, thank you so much for being here.
It's been really great.
Everyone is doing such neat stuff.
And I'm sure we're going to inspire a lot of people,
even ourselves.
Like Rusty's like, I need a button
to launch on my Jupyter Notebooks.
I'm going to do one for live streaming.
So thank you.
Thank you all for being here.
It's been great.
- Thank you.
- Thanks, Michael.
That was fantastic.
- Thank you.
- Thank you, everyone.
- You bet.
Bye.